oci-library/oci-hol/oci-artificial-intelligence/ai-speech/transcribe-audio/transcribe-audio.md, before:

# Lab 1: Transcribing audio with the console

## Introduction
In this session, we will help users get familiar with OCI Speech and teach them how to use our services via the cloud console.

***Estimated Lab Time***: 10-15 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
- Understand a high level overview of the OCI Speech.
- Understand all the capabilities of OCI Speech.
- Understand how to analyze text using OCI Speech via cloud console.

### Prerequisites:
- A Free tier or paid tenancy account in OCI (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure)
- Tenancy is whitelisted to be able to use OCI Speech

## **Policy Setup**

Before you start using OCI Speech, your tenancy administrator should set up the following policies by following below steps:

### 1. Navigate to Policies
Log into OCI Cloud Console. Using the Burger Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Identity & Security and click it, and then select Policies item under Identity.
    ![](./images/policy1.png " ")


### 2. Create Policy
Click Create Policy
    ![](./images/policy2.png " ")


### 3. Create a new policy with the following statements:

If you want to allow all the users in your tenancy to use speech service, create a new policy with the below statement:
    ```
    <copy>
    allow any-user to manage ai-service-speech-family in tenancy
    allow any-user to manage object-family in tenancy
    allow any-user to read tag-namespaces in tenancy
    </copy>
    ```
    ![](./images/any-user-policy.png " ")


If you want to limit access to a user group, first create a group

navigate to oci groups:
    ![](./images/navigate-to-groups.png " ")

click "Create Group"
    ![](./images/create-group.png " ")

add group name and description, click create
    ![](./images/group-name-description.png " ")

to add users click "Add User to Group" and select user from dialog
    ![](./images/add-users-to-group.png " ")




create a new policy with the below statement:
    ```
    <copy>
    allow group group-name to manage ai-service-speech-family in tenancy
    allow group group-name to manage object-family in tenancy
    allow group group-name to read tag-namespaces in tenancy
    </copy>
    ```
    ![](./images/group-name-policy.png " ")

## **TASK 1:** Navigate to Overview Page

Log into OCI Cloud Console. Using the Burger Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Analytics and AI menu and click it, and then select Language item under AI services.
    ![](./images/navigate-to-ai-speech-menu.png " ")

This will navigate you to the transcription jobs overview page.
On the left you can toggle between overview and transcription jobs listing page.
Under documentation you can find helpful links relevant to OCI speech service
    ![](./images/overview-page.png " ")


## **TASK 2:** Create and Manage Transcription Job

### 1: Navigate to OCI Speech

Click "Transcription Job" to navigate to transcription jobs list.
    ![](./images/click-Transcription-Job.png " ")

### 2: Create Transcription Job

Select the compartment in which you want to create your transcription job, then
click the "Create transcription job" button to begin job creation process
    ![](./images/create-transcription-job.png " ")    

### 3: Enter Job Information on Basic Information Page

This page is split into three sections

<strong>Job information:</strong> Optionally enter a name and description for your transcription job, as well as choose the compartment you want your job to be in

 <strong>Data:</strong> Select the bucket in object storage containing the files you want to transcribe and optionally choose where you want the output files to be stored and/or give a prefix to their file names

 <strong>Configure transcription:</strong> Choose the language that the audio you want to transcribe is in and optionally add filters 
    ![](./images/Basic_information_page.png " ")

Click "Next" to continue to file selection


### 4: Select Which File(s) From Object Storage to Transcribe in this Job
Use "Show wav files" toggle to filter input bucket for .wav files only
Select one or more files to transcribe from the specified bucket in object storage then click "Submit"
    ![](./images/select-files.png " ")

### 5: View Newly Created Job in Transcription Jobs List

Once the job is created you will be directed back to the transcription jobs list page, where the newly created job will be at the top
    ![](./images/new-job-in-list.png " ")

### 6: Edit Job

Select "Edit" from the three dots menu on the right to change job information from this page
    ![](./images/kebab-edit.png " ")

Enter new job information in edit slider
    ![](./images/edit-slider.png " ")

To change the compartment of a job from this view select "Move Resource" from the right side three dots menu and choose the target compartment from the dialog
    ![](./images/kebab-move-resource.png " ")

## **TASK 3:** Viewing the Results

To view the result of the transcription we will navigate to each the job and task details page

### 1: Navigating to Job Details Page

Click on the name of the job in the list or click "View details" via the three dots kebab menu on the far right of the job
    ![](./images/navigate-to-job-details.png " ")

### 2: Job Details Page

The job details page is split into two main sections, on top we can see various metadata relating to the job, such as description, the compartment the job is located in and the language of the transcribed audio

The second section is the <i>job tasks list</i> which shows all the files (now dubbed tasks) we had previously selected to transcribe
    ![](./images/job-details-page.png " ")

### 2a: Make Changes to Job

On the job details page click "Edit" to make changes to title, description and tags of the job. Click "Move Resource" to change the compartment that the job is located in (select target compartment form dialog)
    ![](./images/edit-move-resource-details-page.png " ")

### 3: Navigate to Individual Task Details

To view metadata and the actual transcription for each task (file) in this job either click the name of the particular task within the list or click "View details" from the three dots kebab menu on the far right
    ![](./images/navigate-to-task-details.png " ")

### 4: Task Details Page

Similar to the job details page, on the task details page we can view specific metadata for the task in the above section, as well as the audio transcript itself in the lower section
    ![](./images/task-details-page.png " ")


## **TASK 4:** Downloading and Viewing the Results in JSON

You can click "Download transcript" in the top left to download the transcript in JSON format. Click the "Show JSON button" to view the transcription in JSON format.
    ![](./images/show-JSON-button.png " ")

Click Show Standard Results button to leave the JSON view. 
    ![](./images/show-standard-results.png " ")



Congratulations on completing this lab!

[Proceed to the next section](#next).

## Acknowledgements
* **Authors**
    * Alex Ginella  - Oracle AI Services
    * Rajat Chawla  - Oracle AI Services
    * Ankit Tyagi -  Oracle AI Services
* **Last Updated By/Date**
    * Srijon Sarkar  - Oracle AI Services, September 2021

Commit message:

added explanation of job states

oci-library/oci-hol/oci-artificial-intelligence/ai-speech/transcribe-audio/transcribe-audio.md, after:

# Lab 1: Transcribing audio with the console

## Introduction
In this session, we will help users get familiar with OCI Speech and teach them how to use our services via the cloud console.

***Estimated Lab Time***: 10-15 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
- Understand a high level overview of the OCI Speech.
- Understand all the capabilities of OCI Speech.
- Understand how to analyze text using OCI Speech via cloud console.

### Prerequisites:
- A Free tier or paid tenancy account in OCI (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure)
- Tenancy is whitelisted to be able to use OCI Speech

## **Policy Setup**

Before you start using OCI Speech, your tenancy administrator should set up the following policies by following below steps:

### 1. Navigate to Policies
Log into OCI Cloud Console. Using the Burger Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Identity & Security and click it, and then select Policies item under Identity.
    ![](./images/policy1.png " ")


### 2. Create Policy
Click Create Policy
    ![](./images/policy2.png " ")


### 3. Create a new policy with the following statements:

If you want to allow all the users in your tenancy to use speech service, create a new policy with the below statement:
    ```
    <copy>
    allow any-user to manage ai-service-speech-family in tenancy
    allow any-user to manage object-family in tenancy
    allow any-user to read tag-namespaces in tenancy
    </copy>
    ```
    ![](./images/any-user-policy.png " ")


If you want to limit access to a user group, first create a group

navigate to oci groups:
    ![](./images/navigate-to-groups.png " ")

click "Create Group"
    ![](./images/create-group.png " ")

add group name and description, click create
    ![](./images/group-name-description.png " ")

to add users click "Add User to Group" and select user from dialog
    ![](./images/add-users-to-group.png " ")




create a new policy with the below statement:
    ```
    <copy>
    allow group group-name to manage ai-service-speech-family in tenancy
    allow group group-name to manage object-family in tenancy
    allow group group-name to read tag-namespaces in tenancy
    </copy>
    ```
    ![](./images/group-name-policy.png " ")

## **TASK 1:** Navigate to Overview Page

Log into OCI Cloud Console. Using the Burger Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Analytics and AI menu and click it, and then select Language item under AI services.
    ![](./images/navigate-to-ai-speech-menu.png " ")

This will navigate you to the transcription jobs overview page.
On the left you can toggle between overview and transcription jobs listing page.
Under documentation you can find helpful links relevant to OCI speech service
    ![](./images/overview-page.png " ")


## **TASK 2:** Create and Manage Transcription Job

### 1: Navigate to OCI Speech

Click "Transcription Job" to navigate to transcription jobs list.
    ![](./images/click-Transcription-Job.png " ")

### 2: Create Transcription Job

Select the compartment in which you want to create your transcription job, then
click the "Create transcription job" button to begin job creation process
    ![](./images/create-transcription-job.png " ")    

### 3: Enter Job Information on Basic Information Page

This page is split into three sections

<strong>Job information:</strong> Optionally enter a name and description for your transcription job, as well as choose the compartment you want your job to be in

 <strong>Data:</strong> Select the bucket in object storage containing the files you want to transcribe and optionally choose where you want the output files to be stored and/or give a prefix to their file names

 <strong>Configure transcription:</strong> Choose the language that the audio you want to transcribe is in and optionally add filters 
    ![](./images/Basic_information_page.png " ")

Click "Next" to continue to file selection


### 4: Select Which File(s) From Object Storage to Transcribe in this Job
Use "Show wav files" toggle to filter input bucket for .wav files only
Select one or more files to transcribe from the specified bucket in object storage then click "Submit"
    ![](./images/select-files.png " ")

### 5: View Newly Created Job in Transcription Jobs List

Once the job is created you will be directed back to the transcription jobs list page, where the newly created job will be at the top. Notice the status of the job will likely say "Accepted" or "In progress"

Other possible job states are "Succeeded" "Failed" "Partially Succeeded" and "Canceled"

You can use the state filter in the lower left to filter the jobs in the list based on these states
    ![](./images/new-job-in-list.png " ")

### 6: Edit Job

Select "Edit" from the three dots menu on the right to change job information from this page
    ![](./images/kebab-edit.png " ")

Enter new job information in edit slider
    ![](./images/edit-slider.png " ")

To change the compartment of a job from this view select "Move Resource" from the right side three dots menu and choose the target compartment from the dialog
    ![](./images/kebab-move-resource.png " ")

## **TASK 3:** Viewing the Results

To view the result of the transcription we will navigate to each the job and task details page

### 1: Navigating to Job Details Page

On the transcription job list page we can see 
Click on the name of the job in the list or click "View details" via the three dots kebab menu on the far right of the job
    ![](./images/navigate-to-job-details.png " ")

### 2: Job Details Page

The job details page is split into two main sections, on top we can see various metadata relating to the job, such as description, the compartment the job is located in and the language of the transcribed audio

The second section is the <i>job tasks list</i> which shows all the files (now dubbed tasks) we had previously selected to transcribe
    ![](./images/job-details-page.png " ")

### 2a: Make Changes to Job

On the job details page click "Edit" to make changes to title, description and tags of the job. Click "Move Resource" to change the compartment that the job is located in (select target compartment form dialog)
    ![](./images/edit-move-resource-details-page.png " ")

### 3: Navigate to Individual Task Details

To view metadata and the actual transcription for each task (file) in this job either click the name of the particular task within the list or click "View details" from the three dots kebab menu on the far right
    ![](./images/navigate-to-task-details.png " ")

### 4: Task Details Page

Similar to the job details page, on the task details page we can view specific metadata for the task in the above section, as well as the audio transcript itself in the lower section
    ![](./images/task-details-page.png " ")


## **TASK 4:** Downloading and Viewing the Results in JSON

You can click "Download transcript" in the top left to download the transcript in JSON format. Click the "Show JSON button" to view the transcription in JSON format.
    ![](./images/show-JSON-button.png " ")

Click Show Standard Results button to leave the JSON view. 
    ![](./images/show-standard-results.png " ")



Congratulations on completing this lab!

[Proceed to the next section](#next).

## Acknowledgements
* **Authors**
    * Alex Ginella  - Oracle AI Services
    * Rajat Chawla  - Oracle AI Services
    * Ankit Tyagi -  Oracle AI Services
* **Last Updated By/Date**
    * Srijon Sarkar  - Oracle AI Services, September 2021
